---
layout: post
title: "[cocos2d-x wiki翻译]Effects"
date: 2013-03-04 16:58
comments: true
categories: [cocos2d-x wiki翻译]
---


# Effects

Effects
Introduction
How do I use them ?
References
Comment

## Introduction

<div style='display:none;'>
Effects are a special kind of action. Instead of modifying normal properties like opacity, position, rotation, or scale, they modify a new kind of property: the grid property.
</div>

Effects是特殊类型的action.与修改常规的属性如透明度,位置，旋转或缩放不同,它们修改一个新的属性:grid属性.

<div style='display:none;'>
A grid property is like a matrix, it is a network of lines that cross each other to form a series of squares or rectangles.
</div>

grid属性像是一个矩阵,是一个网络。。。。

<div style='display:none;'>
These special actions render any CocosNode object (Layer, Scene, Sprite, etc.) into the grid, and you can transform the grid by moving its vertices.
</div>

这些特殊actions可以渲染任意CocosNode对象 (Layer, Scene, Sprite, etc.)到grid中，你可以通过顶点来转换grid.

<div style='display:none;'>
There are 2 kind of grids: tiled grids and non-tiled grids. The difference is that the tiled grid is composed of individual tiles while the non-tiled grid is composed of vertices.
</div>

一共有2中grid: 布局grid和非布局grid.它们的区别是布局grid是由独立的布局组成，而非布局grid由顶点组成。

<div style='display:none;'>
The following is an example of Ripple3D action, who uses a Grid3D (non-tiled) grid:
</div>  
下面是一个Ripple3D action例子，它使用的是 Grid3D (非布局) grid:

<div style='display:none;'>
and the following is an example of FadeOutTR action, who uses a TiledGrid3D (tiled) grid:
</div> 

FadeOutTR action例子，它使用的是 TiledGrid3D (布局) grid:

## 如何使用?  How do I use them ?
Like any other action, it is executed by the runAction. eg:

1// Create an sprite
2CCSprite* grossini = CCSprite::create("grossini.png");
3grossini->runAction(CCLiquid::create(4, 20, ccg(10,10), 5));

Liquid, like any other grid action, receives the grid parameter. You can adjust the quality of the effect by increasing the size of the grid. But it also implies less FPS.
The Effects are IntervalAction actions so you can treat them like any other action. eg:


```c++
// create a Lens3D action
CCActionInterval* lens = CCLens3D::create(ccp(240,160),240,ccg(15,10),8);

// create a Waved3D action
CCActionInterval* waves = CCWaves3D::create(18,80,ccg(15,10),10);

// create a sequence an repeat it forever
grossini->runAction(CCRepeatForever::create((CCSequence*)CCSequence::create(waves, lens, NULL ) ) );
```

The following is the list of the available Grid3D (non-tiled) actions in v2.1.0:
Shaky3D	Waves3D	FlipX3D	FlipY3D
			
Lens3D	Liquid	Waves	Twirl
			
Ripple3D

The following is the list of the available TiledGrid3D (tiled) actions

ShakyTiles3D	ShatteredTiles3D	ShuffleTiles	FadeOutTRTiles
			
FadeOutBLTiles	FadeOutUpTiles	FadeOutDownTiles	TurnOffTiles
			
WavesTiles3D	JumpTiles3D	SplitRows	SplitCols
			
## References
cocos2d-iphone Introduction to cocos2d’s effects

Last updated by Ziv Lee at Updated about 1 month ago.


Comment